Adding accessibility guide (#86)
framer/api-docs: pages/motion/guide-accessibility.mdx

<!-- 👋 Editing this file? Need help? → https://github.com/framer/api-docs/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md -->

import {
  APIClass,
  APIVariable,
  APIFunction,
  APIMethod,
  APIInterface,
  APIProperty,
  APIMergedInterface,
  Template,
  Link,
  Ref,
  Callout,
  Todo,
} from "../../components"

export default Template("Accessibility")

# Accessibility

<span className="lead">
  How to design accessible animations with Framer Motion.
</span>

> Framer Motion provides the [the useReducedMotion hook](/api/motion/motionvalue/#usereducedmotion) to let you deal with devices that have the Reduced Motion setting enabled.

Reviewer: We can use [`<Ref>`](https://github.com/framer/api-docs/blob/master/components/layout/Ref.tsx#L7) here to ensure the link is kept up to date.

```suggestion
Framer Motion provides the <Ref name="usereducedmotion">the useReducedMotion hook</Ref> to let you deal with devices that have the Reduced Motion setting enabled.
```

> Framer Motion provides the [the useReducedMotion hook](/api/motion/motionvalue/#usereducedmotion) to let you deal with devices that have the Reduced Motion setting enabled.

Reviewer: Also can we link the "Reduced Motion" to some external docs?

```jsx

> const isReducedMotion = useReducedMotion()

Reviewer: Oh maybe include the import here too, so folks know where to import the function from.

```

> Plenty of [excellent](https://alistapart.com/blog/post/more-resources-for-accessible-animations/) [guides](https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2018/04/designing-accessibility-inclusion/) about _why_ and _how_ we should design accessible animations, so in this guide we're briefly going to cover the practicalities of some basic implementations.

Reviewer: It's not super clear that there are two links in this paragraph...

```suggestion
There are plenty of excellent guides (such as these from [A List Apart](https://alistapart.com/blog/post/more-resources-for-accessible-animations/) and [Smashing Magazine](https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2018/04/designing-accessibility-inclusion/)) about _why_ and _how_ we should design accessible animations, so in this guide we’re briefly going to cover the practicalities of some basic implementations.
```

## Using opacity instead of position

> In most cases, you'll still want to show a transition between two states, but reduce motion sickness. A good way to do this is to replace show/hide animations that use positional animations with ones that use opacity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In most cases, you’ll still want to show a transition between two states, but reduce motion sickness. A good way to do this is to replace show/hide animations that use positional animations with ones that use opacity.
```

```jsx
function Component({ isOpen }) {
  const isReducedMotion = useReducedMotion()
  let animate

  if (isOpen) {
    animate = isReducedMotion ? { opacity: 1 } : { x: 0 }
  } else {
    animate = isReducedMotion
      ? { opacity: 0 }
      : { x: "-100%" }
  }

  return <motion.div animate={animate} />
}
```

## Disable parallax

Parallax animations can be very unpleasant for people pre-disposed to motion sickness.

To build parallax, we usually get `scrollY` from `useViewportScroll`, and create a new `MotionValue` via passing that to `useTransform` which will update's a `motion` component's `y` position as the scroll value changes.

To disable this for reduced motion devices, we can conditionally pass a target range `[0, 0]`, so scroll changes have no effect.

```jsx
function Component() {
  const isReducedMotion = useReducedMotion()
  const { scrollY } = useViewportScroll()

  const y = useTransform(
    scrollY,
    [0, 1],
    isReducedMotion ? [0, 0] : [0, -0.2],
    { clamp: false }
  )

  return <motion.div style={{ y }} />
}
```

## Disable auto-playing videos

> `useReducedMotion` isn't only compatible with Framer Motion's API. It returns a simple boolean, so you can use it for any purpose, like disabling the autoplay of a background `video` element.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`useReducedMotion` isn’t only compatible with the Framer Motion API. It returns a simple boolean, so you can use it for any purpose, like disabling the autoplay of a background `video` element.
```
